before we start this next video let me
talk to you about the tragedy of robot
voices so here's a video I recorded my
life takes so long to get things done
robot voice is part of it anyway so on
to generics now we've actually already
done defining generic classes before we
built a linked list deck and array deck
all those kind of things in those cases
at the top of the class we specified a
that this was going to be a generic
class this is not a new thing but in
this video what we're gonna do is build
a new one and kind of be a little more
careful about what we're doing rather
than just having a bunch of rules we
don't quite understand so what we're
gonna do in this video is create a new
class called array map that's going to
implement the map 61b interface which is
going to be a restricted version of the
map interface that's built into Java so
what it Maps do they let you associate
keys with values so you can say things
like Josh's grade is 3008 no nevermind
josh is great as 45 and so forth and
that's what the put method does well
have a contains method that says whether
or not josh is in there get that will
return my grade keys that will return
the list of all keys and then finally
sighs which says how many keys I'm an
ignoramus an array based implementation
and if you want to you can try doing
this on your own this little dude in the
corner a pair of people is an indication
to people who are looking only at the
slides that this is an exercise I guess
this is something I added last year and
forgot about but it was pretty cool if
I'd had that in earlier slides
you would have known anyway so let's
jump on in oops so what we're gonna do
is build what you just saw there this is
the project I've already opened it up
because actually I've already done this
and I had that delete it and now I'm
doing it again because of robot voice
but here basically we have a package in
this case the top of the code says
package map 61b and that's just because
real java code is usually end packages
it doesn't really mean very much except
for now well I guess in the next lecture
we'll explore exactly what
that means but the one big difference is
that now everything's gonna be inside of
this special map 61p folder because
everything's part of a map 61b
package and we saw a little bit of what
thought that meant what that meant in
the past but it'll be a future video
where I really dig in
so anyway that's not super important
what does matter now is we want to build
an array map and so if I want to
instantiate an array map I need a place
to store key value pairs so the most
natural approach is to create an array
of keys and so here I can say K will
call them keys and this is an array of
keys and we'll make that private I don't
have a private V values and then I'm
also going to set up a size and then in
my array map constructor I'll say keys
equals new K but of course that won't
work because you can't make generic
arrays so we have to do that silly
little thing where we say K array caste
new object can we also have values
equals the new object and we'll say size
is zero
now of course IntelliJ is yelling at us
and it's saying what the heck are you
doing like this is weird
it is weird oh and there's actually a
compilation error I forgot to say a size
so I'll say 100 but it's saying hey this
is weird what are you doing and we just
have to say we know what we're doing
Java sorry it's just a quirk of the Java
type system there's no nice way around
it you can suppress the warning but it's
the warning now I want to note one quick
thing that's important here which is
that K and B here are totally arbitrary
I mean instead of K I could have put
horse everywhere and had a horse horse
horse horse and so forth and that would
work fine it just said have to change
all these other case the horses so be
aware there's nothing special about the
fact that I use the letter K and V it
could have been anything okay so that
sets up our empty array map and so the
next thing we're gonna do is write this
method called key index so what is that
- well that's supposed to go through and
find the key if it exists and return its
index and if it doesn't exist it'll
return minus 1 so we're just gonna
iterate through all of the keys and
we're gonna say for INT I let's say
equals 0 is less
than keys sigh or link than we do i plus
equals one and then we can say if keys I
equal equals key then we return I
otherwise at the end will turn minus one
there's actually two bugs here
very subtle bugs they'll mention by
fixing them so instead of equal equals
the problem with equal equals and this
is something you want to keep in mind
when you're writing code equal equal
says are these two memory boxes pointing
at the same thing are the arrows
pointing at the same thing well in this
case we don't really consider that
equality because if I make one dog
called horse and another dog named horse
these are weirdly named dogs and I check
if they're equal using equal equals well
then it won't consider them the same
because they are instantiated separately
so to fix this I'm going to use the dot
equals method and we'll discuss the dot
equals method in a later lecture lecture
the other minor bug is that I shouldn't
actually look at every key in the array
it might not really matter but it's
important here to note that this array
we don't want to look at all of the
nulls that are gonna be in this array we
instead want to do size which is how
many keys we have okay so it won't
really break key index because unless
someone's trying to get a null out of it
but maybe that's a little complicated
okay I just I hope it makes sense that
it we should only be looking at the keys
that have actually been added and
there's various little subtle bugs that
can pop up as a result of this
all right contains key how do I do that
well in this case I can just say give me
the index of key and then I guess a if
index is greater than minus one then it
must exist otherwise we'll say it
doesn't exist now this code while it
works is considered ugly by many
programmers they would probably rather
you just do it in one line we can
actually just return the result of this
so this evaluates to some value true or
false so if it's true we return true and
if it's false we return false so why not
just returned index greater than minus 1
so even
though that looks like code that's a
little too clever it's very common and
I'd say get used to it because you're
gonna see it all over the place and
people who are used to writing code like
that well maybe think you're cooler if
you write code like that all right next
up put so in this case I want to locate
the key in the array if it exists and if
so then I want to replace the current
value otherwise I'm gonna add the key
and the value so the idea here is that
as a reminder the way map works is if I
say put Josh's grade as 30 then put
Josh's grade as 40 I don't get to grades
I get one grade and the most recent put
over writes the original value if you
didn't know that well that's how maps or
dictionaries work so I'm gonna do it
like this I'm gonna say int index equals
key index key and then I'll say if index
is minus one meaning it wasn't in there
then I'm gonna go to the end of the
array keys and I'm gonna add the new key
let me go to the end of the values array
I'm gonna add the new value and then I'm
also going to say size plus equals one
okay so other words if it's not in there
go to the end of the array not the end
of the whole array but go to the end of
all the used elements of the array and
then add the key value pair and then
finally if we don't have the index if it
already existed I guess I'll have a
return here if it already existed in
that case we'll simply say values key
equals value okay we could also find
that key should be index and if we also
we could also do keys index not equals
key in order to make sure that that's
true but that's redundant because if we
get to this point we know that it's in
the array and so keys index must be key
by definition okay so in this case we
now have values index equals value and
so we'll move on how about get well to
get actually it's pretty simple
I mean to me so what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna get the index by doing key index
key and then I'm just gonna return
whatever's in that index and that's
value now this will crash if the item is
not in the array map but that's okay
because we're not we're just
okay we'll talk about better ways to do
it later next war turn size and then
finally we have keys which if we look at
map 61 B says it's supposed to return a
list of keys in this map so to do that
well we need some kind of a list
we can't just return keys because it's
an array so maybe we could try and I'll
say nope you're trying to give me a list
are you trying to give me an array and I
expect a list so there may be some
method out there that will convert a
Java array to a list of the same type
but I'm in a note that it's not very
useful to us because we don't want the
entire list or we don't want the entire
array we only want the first size items
and so rather than going and looking up
some special syntax I'm just gonna do it
by hand so I'm gonna say list K key list
equals new let's say ArrayList FK that's
one of the implementations so this is my
abstract data type over here and this is
my specific implementation and then I'm
gonna say for each key is listing keys
that length I plus equals one well do
keyless add keys I and then we're gonna
just return key list and so at this
point all my code should work now in the
real world I would have lots of unit
tests I would make sure this works and
when you do project - you better not
write that much code and hope it all
works I've done this like probably you
know three times including robot voice
now so I feel very confident in my work
but you should not do that should really
write tests here's one we'll run it a
bit what I'm gonna do first though just
to get an intuition that it's working
rather than using an extensive set of
unit tests I'm going to run this code
using the debugger Sona use the debugger
the breakpoint it stops the code before
this line and then we can visualize
what's inside of our actual data
structure so here we have an array this
is all my keys these are all my values
and we can see that horse is associated
with three fish is associated with nine
and then now we're gonna associate house
with 10 so if all goes according to plan
we'll put a house at the end of this
array and 10 here and we step over and
indeed it seems to have work okay now
there's all this extra space that we're
not using and of course it'll actually
run out but we're not going to deal with
resizing
video so that's basically it for the
array map it will debrief what we
learned doing all this and like get a
big picture of the class in a moment but
actually want to show you a funny thing
that you're likely to encounter on
project 2 so here I just suggested that
we do unit testing and in this case
we'll do a simple unit test let's create
a new array map that goes from integer
to integer will associate the value 5
with the key to we'll expect to get back
five and then we'll just say hey if I
ask for the key the value associated
with the key - what do I get
and assume that they're equals in this
case we actually get a strange error and
so we're gonna pick apart what that air
is all about in the next video
but first let's reflect on what we did
with the arraignment Reap hooray map
class